There is also a cache that has been
with Safari and Firefox for a while, and
it has just arrived into
Chrome a few versions ago.
It's called bfcache or back/forward cache.
In this case, it's not about resources.
It's about saving your
page navigation in memory.
So you are in frontendmasters.com,
you have a session, you have the JavaScript loaded,
you have done a lot of stuff, and
then you go to google.com, okay?
What happens when you go back,
we press the back key to Frontend Masters?
Normally, it was loaded
again like a new navigation.
With bfcache, no, it will just
defreeze that page from memory.
And of course,
the performance of that is a lot better.
When you go back and forward, then you
don't need to reload the pages, okay?
In this case, it's automatic.
So it's not an API,
it's not something that we have to do.
But there are some things that you
can be doing in your website that can
disable bfcache for you.
For example, unload events or
a kind of cache known as no-store.
So you can say to the browser no-store,
I don't want you to store the data.
If you say that, the browser will
disable bfcache for your site.
How do you know if that works or not?
Using Chrome DevTools, you can go to
Application, the Application tab,
and within the Application tab,
you will find, where is it?
They changed it?
No, here it is.
Within Background Services,
Back/forward cache.
So here, because it's local host,
it's not giving you by default any
information, but you can test it.
So it says that it worked.
So you're not using any weird tricks or
things that will disable bfcache for
your real user.
So you can go to your website,
make that test.
And if there is a problem, you will see
a red with a list of problems that you
should change in your code if you wanna
enable bfcache for your websites.
Does that make sense?
So we're not in control of that.
The only thing that we have is
the ability to not use some APIs so
the browser will increase
the opportunity for enabling bfcache.
>> Does adding query parameters
after a filename make a difference?
>> That's a good question.
So the cache that we were seeing here,
we were talking about here,
we didn't see here how the database or
the data storage works internally.
But what's the key of that storage?
Well, one key is the URL,
but not the whole URL.
There are keys to the method
if it's get or post.
But let's simplify this
only on get requests.
Is the URL without the hash.
So, what's the hash?
So the URL has a protocol,
has a host, the origin.
It has a path,
it can contain a query string and a hash.
Well, the hash is what goes
after the pound symbol or
the hash, that's not part of the key.
But I think the question was
that part is part of it.
So if you have mydomain.com/css,
and then query string 1 and
query string 2,
even if in the server it's the same file,
from a browser's perspective,
we are talking about two different assets.
Does it make sense?
Because it's two different URLs,
even if server-side is different.
And we were using this technique
actually a few years ago
when we wanna change a file.
So it's actually a hack.
If you set the expiration date of your
assets for 60 years in the future,
but then tomorrow,
you have to change your CSS.
So how can you force an update?
Well, we go to your HTML and
you add a timestamp or
a version number,
something like this here.
And your users will see a new CSS file,
not the previous one,
because it's a different URL.
Does it make sense?
So, what goes after the question mark
is actually part of the URL, and
it will create unique URLs, Okay?
Cool, well, so how do you know if
the user is going out or in the bfcache?
Well, you have a Page Navigation API.
And with that API, you can know when
the user is getting out of your app, and
you can open and restore connections,
such as if you have a web socket.
Maybe you wanna close that web socket
when the user is going out of your page.
And if the user is going back,
because it's being restored now,
you need to reconnect to that web socket.
If you wanna get deeper on that,
check the other workshop on
Frontend Masters that I also did
on JavaScript in the background.
We explain and do some examples on
Page Navigation APIs on that workshop.